So far, all of our regions have revolved around the x- and y- axes to form a solid. What if we are told to revolve around a different (horizontal or vertical) axis?

## Example 1

Given the region bounded by the graphs $y=1 + \sqrt{x}$, $y=1$, and $x=4$, find the volume of the solid generated by revolving this region about the line $y=1$.

1. Disk or washer? *Disk, since it's fully connected to the line it's revolving around.*
2. Is this a $dx$ or $dy$ problem? *$dx$, since the line of revolution is parallel to the x-axis*
3. $R = \sqrt{x}$; $r=0$

$\pi \int_0^4 \sqrt{x}^2 dx$
$\pi \int_0^4 x dx$
$\pi (0.5x^2 |_0^4)$
$\pi 0.5(4)^2$
$\pi 0.5(16)$
$8\pi$ units cubed


## Example 2

Given the region bounded by the graphs $y=1+\sqrt{x}$, $y=1$, and $x=4$, find the volume of the solid generated by revolving this region about $y=3$

1. Disk or washer? *Washer, since it's not fully connected to the line it's revolving around.*
2. Is this a $dx$ or $dy$ problem? *$dx$, since the line of revolution is parallel to the x-axis*
3. $R = -2$; $r= \sqrt{x} -2$

$\pi \int_0^4 4 - (\sqrt{x} -2)^2 dx$
$\pi \int_0^4 4 - (2x - 2\sqrt{x} + 4) dx$
$\pi \int_0^4 (-2x + 4\sqrt{x}) dx$
$\pi \int_0^4 (-2x + 4\sqrt{x}) dx$
$\pi \int_0^4 (-2x + 4x^{0.5}) dx$
$\pi -x^2 + \frac{8}{3}x^{1.5} |_0^4$
$\pi \int_0^4 -(4)^2 + 21.3333333$
$13.33333333\pi$

## Example 3
Given the region bounded by the graphs $y=1+\sqrt{x}$, $y=1$, and $x=4$, find the volume of the solid generated by revolving this region about $x=4$

1. Disk or washer? *Disk, since it's fully connected to the line it's revolving around.*
2. Is this a $dx$ or $dy$ problem? *$dy$, since the line of revolution is parallel to the y-axis*
3. $R = (y - 1)^2 - 4$; $r= 0$


$\pi \int_1^3 (4 - (y-1)^2) dy$
$\pi \int_1^3 (4 - (y-1)^2) dy$
$5.3333333\pi$

## Example 4

Given the region bounded by the graphs $y=1+\sqrt{x}$, $y=1$, and $x=4$, find the volume of the solid generated by revolving this region about $x=-1$

1. Disk or washer? *Washer, since it's not fully connected to the line it's revolving around.*
2. Is this a $dx$ or $dy$ problem? *$dy$, since the line of revolution is parallel to the y-axis*
3. $R = 5$; $r = (y - 1)^2 + 1$


$\pi \int_1^3 (25 - ((y-1)^2 + 1)^2) dy$
$36.26666666\pi$