The 1997 film *Good Will Hunting* is hailed as an excellent movie by critics and audiences alike. It depicts a teenage boy with incredible mathematical intelligence, the titular Will Hunting. Will's skill is discovered by an MIT professor, Gerald Lambeau, who attempts to find him a job where he can 'do good for the world', rather than spending his days slacking off with his low-class friends. As a condition of his parole, Will must see a psychologist, Sean, who encourages him to go his own way and find the courage to move to California with his girlfriend, Skylar. The writers of the film, Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, depict Will as a scared, troubled young man who wants to follow his own path. Although *Good Will Hunting* portrays Will's eventual departure to California as a victory over his psychological demons, it drastically oversimplifies its message by depicting his choices as binary and his departure fro Boston as a unilateral psychological victory, which ultimately contributes to an undue polarization of the movie's views.

Will's choice between following Gerry's decision by getting a job or going to California is presented as a black-and-white binary decision. The professor sets up several math-related job interviews for him, which Will initially sees as boring and pointless. After an interview with the NSA, he shares with Sean his worries how if he accepts, he may "\[break a code that\] no one else can break. [...] But [...] that code was the location of some rebel army ... [that they] bomb [and] fifteen hundred people that I never met [...] get killed". Will's fear feeds back into 